---
title: Configuration Options
position: 23
---

# Configuration Options

All configuration options for Netlify CMS are specified in the `config.yml` file, in the folder where you access the editor UI (usually in the `/admin` folder).

To see working configuration examples, you can [start from a template](https://www.netlifycms.org/test-drive) or check out the [CMS demo site](https://cms-demo.netlify.com). (No login required: click the login button and the CMS will open.) You can refer to the demo [configuration code](https://github.com/netlify/netlify-cms/blob/master/example/config.yml) to see how each option was configured.

You can find details about all configuration options below. Note that [YAML syntax](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML#Basic_components) allows lists and objects to be written in block or inline style, and the code samples below include a mix of both.

## Backend

*This setting is required.*

The `backend` option specifies how to access the content for your site, including authentication. Full details and code samples can be found in [Authentication & Backends](https://www.netlifycms.org/docs/authentication-backends).


## Publish Mode

By default, all entries created or edited in the Netlify CMS are committed directly into the main repository branch.

The `publish_mode` option allows you to enable "Editorial Workflow" mode for more control over the content publishing phases. All unpublished entries will be arranged in a board according to their status, and they can be further reviewed and edited before going live.

You can enable the Editorial Workflow with the following line in `config.yml`:

```yaml
publish_mode: editorial_workflow
```

From a technical perspective, the workflow translates editor UI actions into common Git commands:

Actions in Netlify UI ...	| Perform these Git actions
--- | ---
Save draft | Commits to a new branch (named according to the pattern `cms/collectionName-entrySlug`), and opens a pull request
Edit draft | Pushes another commit to the draft branch/pull request
Approve and publish draft | Merges pull request and deletes branch


## Media and Public Folders

*This setting is required.*

Netlify CMS users can upload files to your repository using the Media Gallery. The following settings specify where these files are saved, and where they can be accessed on your built site.

**Options**

- `media_folder` (required): Folder path where uploaded files should be saved, relative to the base of the repo.
- `public_folder` (optional): Folder path where uploaded files will be accessed, relative to the base of the built site. For fields controlled by [file] or [image] widgets, the value of the field is generated by prepending this path to the filename of the selected file. Defaults to the value of `media_folder`, with an opening `/` if one is not already included.

**Example**

``` yaml
media_folder: "static/images/uploads"
public_folder: "/images/uploads"
```

Based on the settings above, if a user used an image widget field called `avatar` to upload and select an image called `philosoraptor.png`, the image would be saved to the repository at `/static/images/uploads/philosoraptor.png`, and the `avatar` field for the file would be set to `/images/uploads/philosoraptor.png`.


